---
title : Yield Analytics Seasonality FAQs
description : Learn about seasonality in Yield Analytics in this page.
ms.date : 10/28/2023
ms.custom : yield-analytics-ui

---


# Yield Analytics seasonality FAQs

This page deals with concepts on seasonality in Yield Analytics. 

## What is seasonality in Yield Analytics?

The basic input into a Yield Analytics capacity forecast is ad server
log data. Yield Analytics can forecast your inventory using log data
alone, but the forecast will not account for changes in the traffic
pattern and amplitude, based on the time of year or on events or
holidays that recur year after year. Without seasonality, all future
Mondays will have the same capacity. All future Tuesdays will have the
same capacity, and so on. With your help, a Technical Client Manager can
implement seasonal models in Yield Analytics to ensure forecasts reflect
the seasonality of your inventory.

:::image type="content" source="media/a.png" alt-text="Screenshot of yield analytics UI - A .":::
:::image type="content" source="media/b.png" alt-text="Screenshot of yield analytics UI - B .":::

## How do I know whether my inventory has seasonality?

Start exploring your seasonality by pulling historical capacity for
your entire network for the last two or three years, preferably at a
daily level, and graphing it year over year. Barring major changes to
your site such as a redesign, if your inventory has seasonality you
should see a similar traffic pattern from year to year. The amplitude
does not need to be the same, as there will naturally be organic growth
or decline. Once you've established that you have seasonality at the
network level, consider whether you may have any broad sections of
inventory that have a significantly different seasonal pattern than the
network. Repeat the graphing process for those sections to determine
whether it makes sense to consider handling them separately from a
seasonality standpoint.

## I want to implement seasonality in Yield Analytics. What’s involved?

Reach out to your Account Manager or Technical Client Manager (TCM)
to start the process. First, the TCM will ask you to provide historical
capacity data for your network or for the sections of inventory that
follow seasonal patterns that are important to you from a sales
perspective. For example: If you had a sports site and you sold each
sport separately, you might provide one dataset for soccer and another
for hockey, since they exhibit different seasonal trends. It’s best if
you can provide two to three years of daily history for each dataset.

Next the TCM will collaborate with you to create one or more seasonal
models based on the provided history. Your help may be needed to
interpret that history. For example, if two years of history for the
same inventory don’t align, the TCM will ask for your insight into what
year is the best representation of the seasonal curve you expect going
forward. The TCM will create a Seasonal Model Product for each model,
which will define the pool of inventory that pertains to the associated
model.

Finally, the TCM will load the seasonal models into Yield Analytics.
Once this has been done the forecast for any given product will be
influenced by any overlapping seasonal models in proportion to the
overlap.

## My inventory is influenced by a seasonal event that falls on a different date every year. How does Yield Analytics handle that?

An event is a seasonal occasion or holiday that corresponds with a
specific traffic pattern that is different than the norm. The
event-related traffic pattern will be built into the corresponding
seasonal model so it can be forecast for future years.

Yield Analytics maintains an event calendar for each client that can be
customized to ensure event behavior is applied on the appropriate dates
in future years. Some events and holidays are standard, such as
Christmas. Other holidays and events are created custom based on your
specific seasonality. For example, if a yearly industry conference were
an important seasonal event for your inventory, the TCM would load the
dates for that event into the calendar several years into the future.
You may be asked to help provide those future dates.

## I have at least a year of history stored in Yield Analytics. Doesn’t Yield Analytics automatically know the seasonality of my inventory?

Seasonal models are the mechanism that enables Yield Analytics to
apply seasonality in forecasting, and seasonal models are not
automatically updated as history accrues in Yield Analytics. Seasonal
models must be manually maintained over time to ensure they continue to
represent the most up-to-date seasonal curve for the inventory. Reach
out to your Account Manager or Technical Client Manager to schedule a
periodic review of your seasonal models. Typically, seasonal models are
initially reviewed for accuracy 6 months after implementation.  If all
remains correct, an annual review will be conducted unless forecasting
issues arise due to seasonal changes.
