---
Title : Supply Type Detection - FAQ
Description : <div id="supply-type-detection-faq__note_xrb_yx5_4wb"
Note: On February 13, 2018, we made
changes to how the supply type field is set on inventory. No action is
---


# Supply Type Detection - FAQ





<div id="supply-type-detection-faq__note_xrb_yx5_4wb"


Note: On February 13, 2018, we made
changes to how the supply type field is set on inventory. No action is
required from buyers or sellers, but customers should be aware of the
change.





Currently, supply type is a field that sellers set on placement groups
to identify impressions as **Web**, **Mobile Web**, or **App (CTV,
Mobile)**, and buyers can choose to target supply type in campaigns and
line items. To reduce errors from sellers misclassifying or leaving the
default, Xandr will now detect and set supply type implicitly on every
impression. As a result, buyers will be able to more accurately target
the inventory they want, and sellers will have one less operational task
in managing their inventory. Buyers specifically targeting mobile web
may also see a bump in reach as this is a commonly misclassified supply
type.

<div id="supply-type-detection-faq__section_s3t_1y5_4wb"
>

## FAQs

**What technologies does Xandr use to detect supply type?**

Xandr uses DeviceAtlas to determine whether an impression originated
from a mobile device or desktop/laptop, and uses referrer URL and
application ID data to distinguish "app" traffic from "web" and "mobile
web".

**Will there be any changes to reporting, or will I continue to be able
to leverage supply type as a filter and dimension?**

There are no changes to reporting; you can continue to use the supply
type filter and dimension.

**If I find errors, how do I report them?**

Please report any issues using our
<a href="https://help.xandr.com/" class="xref" target="_blank">Customer
Support Portal</a>.

**How will Xandr supply type detection differ from the supply type I
have set on my inventory?**

The majority of inventory will be unaffected by this change. However,
"mobile web" is the most commonly misclassified supply type that we see.
We frequently see placement groups configured with supply type "web"
where many impressions should be instead classified as "mobile web". As
a result, we expect to see a minor decrease in the volume of "web"
impressions and a commensurate increase in "mobile web". The "app"
supply type is also occasionally misclassified; a small volume of "app"
impressions with invalid or missing app IDs supply will be reclassified
as "web" or "mobile web".

**What happens to the values I currently set on supply type?**

As Xandr is now detecting supply type, any supply type designations made
in our platform UI will be overridden by Xandr detection.

**Will the supply type setting be removed from the UI and API?**

Yes, these settings will be removed from both the UI and API. The exact
timeline for this change is TBD. Please refer to this page for updates.

**Will I be able to see how my inventory is classified in the UI and
API?**

Supply type is still available as a reporting filter & dimension in
several reports.

However, supply type designations will be removed from the Placement
Group and Placement summary screens in the UI and the `supply_type`
field will be removed from the Site Service. The exact timeline for this
change is TBD. Please refer to this page for updates.

**What happens to line items and campaigns that are currently targeting
supply type? Will they continue to work?**

Yes, line items and campaigns will continue to work and no action is
required from buyers to adjust them. Buyers targeting "mobile web" may
observe a small increase in reach as this is a commonly misclassified
supply type.

**Will inventory type targeting be available on my Guaranteed Delivery
and Standard Line Items too?**

Inventory type targeting is only available in Augmented Line Items.
Supply type targeting can be used in Guaranteed Delivery and Standard
Line Items to distinguish between web and app supply.

**Will this impact my inventory forecasts?**

In the first few days following this release there may be minor effects
on supply forecasting, as "mobile web" is a commonly misclassified
supply type. Forecasts for "web" might decrease and "mobile web" might
increase commensurately. However, no action needs to be taken as this
will normalize after a few days.

**Will this impact my existing reservations and delivery for my
Guaranteed Delivery line items?**

We expect most Guaranteed Delivery Line Items to not be impacted at all.
Some line items may be minimally impacted. In virtually all cases, line
items that are either include- or exclude-targeting
currently-misclassified supply type impressions will continue to include
or exclude that supply following this release.






