# External Reference Materials: Blogs and Publications

<div class="body refbody">

<div class="example">

There are a lot of good materials out there about the online advertising
industry. Here is the list of our favorites, listed in no particular
order except for the first two.

</div>

<div class="section">

## Personal Blogs

**<a href="http://mikeonads.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">Mikeonads.com</a>:** The personal blog of Former
<span class="ph">AppNexus</span> CTO Mike Nolet. Mike’s post topics can
be wide-ranging, but mostly focus on online advertising from a technical
perspective. He is well known in the ad world for explaining things in
easy-to-understand terms.

**<a href="http://blog.aripaparo.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">Aripaparo.com</a>:** The personal blog of Former
<span class="ph">AppNexus</span> SVP of Product Ari Paparo.

**<a href="http://www.liesdamnedlies.com/" class="xref"
target="_blank">LiesDamnedLies.com</a>:** The personal blog of an
Microsoft Ad Platform Evangelist that works in Microsoft's Advertising
Platform group. His 2008 series on
<a href="http://www.liesdamnedlies.com/2008/06/online-advertis.html"
class="xref" target="_blank">online advertising 101</a> is very popular
with people new to the ad industry.

**<a href="http://www.jayweintraub.com/" class="xref"
target="_blank">JayWeintraub.com</a>:** The personal blog of Jay
Weintraub. He spent 2.5 years at Advertising.com. He also contributes to
DMConfidential.com.

**<a href="http://www.yardley.ca/" class="xref"
target="_blank">Yardley.ca</a>:** The personal blog of Greg Yardley, a
tech entrepreneur and former product manager at Right Media, primarily
on the ad-serving portion of the ad exchange.

**<a href="http://adbyte.blogspot.com/" class="xref"
target="_blank">Adbyte.blogspot.com</a>:** The personal blog of Roland
Cozzolino, the CTO of MediaMath.

**<a href="http://bhorowitz.com/" class="xref"
target="_blank">Bhorowitz.com</a>:** The personal blog of Ben Horowitz,
the co-founder of Opsware.

**<a href="http://measuringemarketing.blogspot.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">Measuringemarketing.blogspot.com</a>:** The personal
blog of  Amit Prakash, an Online Marketing Analyst working at a Media
Agency in Chicago, IL with over 6+ years of experience in consumer
analytics.

</div>

<div id="ID-0000157a__section_ogm_dln_4wb" class="section">

## Ad Publications

**<a href="http://adexchanger.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">AdExchanger.com</a>:** AdExchanger.com is a digital
advertising news and discussion site about and for agencies, ad
networks, advertisers, publishers, data providers, media traders and ad
technology companies. It is one of the main B2B news sources for our
industry. <span class="ph">AppNexus</span> CEO Brian O'Kelley has
contributed Q&A's and other articles for AdExchanger.

**<a href="http://exchangewire.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">ExchangeWire.com</a>:** ExchangeWire.com is, in many
ways, the EU equivalent of AdExchanger.com. It tracks online ad trading
and the exchange marketplace in Europe. It provides opinion and analysis
on the following sector companies: yield optimizers, specialist media
buyers, ad networks, media agencies, publishers, data exchanges, ad
exchanges and specialist ad-tech providers in the mobile and online
display markets.** **

**<a href="http://clickz.com" class="xref" target="_blank">ClickZ.com</a>:**
ClickZ has a broader focus than AdExchanger, providing news and
commentary on a wide variety of trends in online advertising. ClickZ
covers email marketing, analytics, marketing trends, media trends,
mobile, search, and social, technology to
trends.<span class="ph">AppNexus</span> CEO and SVP of Product Brian
O’Kelley and Ari Paparo contribute monthly ClickZ Experts columns that
usually appear in the Networks & Exchanges category.

**<a href="http://digiday.com" class="xref" target="_blank">DIGIDAY</a>:**
DIGIDAY:DAILY covers  the top stories in online publishing and
marketing, with a focus on content monetization, interactive ad
campaigns, mobile and social media.

**<a href="http://www.adotas.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">ADOTAS.com</a>:** A publication similar to AdExchanger,
but with a more prominent editorial voice and commentary on the industry
and other media outlets covering the industry. (Owned by Bob Regular of
Kitara).

**<a href="http://paidcontent.org" class="xref"
target="_blank">paidContent.org</a>:** Paid Content focuses on all types
of digital content and how it is monetized. Most of the focus in on
consumer-facing companies, rather than B2B coverage.

**<a href="http://imediaconnection.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">iMediaConnection.com</a>:** iMedia Connection’s tagline
is “Connecting the Marketing Community” and it provides news, trends and
“how to’s” on different interactive marketing strategies.

**<a href="http://adage.com/channel/digital/20" class="xref"
target="_blank">Advertising Age</a>:** The major trade publication for
advertising agencies. Much of their coverage focuses on large agencies
and brand advertisers, and the world of print and television, but the
digital news section of their website covers the companies that are
relevant to online advertising.

**<a href="http://mediapost.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">MediaPost.com</a>:** The MediaPost Online Media Daily
covers the major agencies, advertisers, publishers, and technology
providers. It also publishes major trend information, such as research
on expected growth for the industry and technology trends.

**<a href="http://ADWEEK.COM" class="xref" target="_blank">Adweek</a>:**
The major competitor to Ad Age, the Technology section of Adweek’s site
covers the companies relevant to online advertising.

</div>

<div id="ID-0000157a__section_kzk_lks_4wb" class="section">

## Advertising Regulatory Bodies

**<a href="http://iab.net" class="xref" target="_blank">The Internet
Advertising Bureau</a>:** Global nonprofit group and regulatory body
open to companies actively engaged in the sale of interactive
advertising and marketing.

</div>

<div class="section">

## Company Blogs

**<a href="http://googleblog.blogspot.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">Official Google Blog</a>:** Official Google Blog.

</div>

<div class="section">

## Tech Publications

**<a href="http://allthingsd.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">AllThingsD.com</a>:** AllThingsD.com is a Wall Street
Journal website covering the Internet and media industries. The primary
audience is a general business news reader with an interest in
technology, so stories are often written with an eye towards keeping
things in layman’s terms. Kara Swisher is the journalist dedicated to
the internet and technology beat, breaking new stories and analysis and
opinion.

**<a href="http://businessinsider.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">BusinessInsider.com</a>:** The Tech section of Business
Insider, called Silicon Alley Insider (SAI), covers startups and
established players in the technology industry. Silicon Alley Insider
was created by DoubleClick founders Dwight Merriman and Kevin Ryan and
former top-ranked Wall Street analyst Henry Blodget.

**<a href="http://techcrunch.com" class="xref"
target="_blank">TechCrunch.com</a>:** TechCrunch profiles startups, new
Internet products, and breaking tech news. Michael Arrington has built a
reputation for scooping larger news outlets, on acquisitions like the
AdMeld/Google deal.

</div>

<div id="ID-0000157a__section_agr_3ln_4wb" class="section">

## Mainstream Publications

**<a href="http://nytimes.com/pages/technology/index.html" class="xref"
target="_blank">The New York Times Technology section</a>:** Covers
major technology headlines, with mostly a consumer focus.

**<a href="http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/" class="xref"
target="_blank">The New York Times Bits blog</a>:** Covers the lower
profile news items in a shorter format than the official New York Times
Technology section.

**<a href="http://online.wsj.com/public/page/news-tech-technology.html"
class="xref" target="_blank">The Wall Street Journal marketplace
section</a>:** Covers major technology headlines, with mostly a consumer
and investor focus.

**<a
href="http://online.wsj.com/public/page/what-they-know-digital-privacy.html"
class="xref" target="_blank">WSJ What They Know Series on Digital
Privacy</a>:** Digital privacy and how it relates to online advertising
is always in the mind of every online marketer. WSJ has a “What They
Know” series on digital privacy, that takes a pro-consumer look at user
data and tracking on the Internet.

</div>

<div class="section">

## Disclaimer

<span class="ph">AppNexus</span> does not run any of these sites and is
not responsible for any of the material contained in them. This list is
not intended to be comprehensive.

</div>

</div>

<div class="related-links">

- **[Hacks-Hackers Developer
  Glossary](hacks-hackers-developer-glossary.html)**  

</div>
