---
Title : Use Cases for Cross-Device Targeting and Measurement
Description : Cross-device targeting and measurement can effectively address several
ms.date: 10/28/2023
key goals for advertisers, including per-user frequency capping,
expanding an ad's reach to users who favor different devices, and
attributing conversions that take place on a different device from the
initial ad view.
---


# Use Cases for Cross-Device Targeting and Measurement



Cross-device targeting and measurement can effectively address several
key goals for advertisers, including per-user frequency capping,
expanding an ad's reach to users who favor different devices, and
attributing conversions that take place on a different device from the
initial ad view.



## Frequency Capping per Consumer, Across Devices

You don't want your customers to feel pestered or fatigued by seeing the
same ad everywhere they go. By enabling cross-device targeting, you can
set a frequency cap for how many times a person sees an ad on their
mobile device, desktop device, and tablet. For example, if you set your
ad frequency to twice a day and a consumer already saw it twice on a
mobile device, the ad will not appear on a tablet or desktop for that
later in the day.





## Extending Audience Reach to New Devices

Your users or customers might be clustered on one type of device: for
example, you might currently have primarily mobile users, but want to
take advantage of higher conversion rates associated with desktop users.
Cross-device targeting broadens your reach by allowing you to reach the
same users on more devices. For example, if conversion rates are higher
for your product line on desktop, being able to target your mobile users
when they move to desktop can boost your conversion rates.





## Conversion Attribution

A customer sees a clothing ad on a mobile device, clicks on it, and
starts browsing on a clothing website. They realize browsing for clothes
on a mobile device isn't a great shopping experience, because the screen
is too small to see the detail of the clothes. The customer switches
over to a desktop computer with a larger screen, logs in, and then
completes the purchase. Cross-device measurement allows you to track and
report on that conversion.





class="note warning note_warning">

<b>Warning:</b> Cross-device functionality is
available to sellers when running line items that purchase inventory
from the ad exchange using RTB. It's not available when sellers are
running managed campaigns on their own inventory.



Related Topics

- <a href="cross-device-targeting-and-measurement.md" class="xref"
  title="Cross-device targeting and measurement, which can be enabled at the line item level, ties together events or actions for a unique individual that occur on different devices.">Cross-Device
  Targeting and Measurement</a>
- <a href="set-up-cross-device-attribution.md" class="xref"
  title="To attribute conversions across a multi-device consumer journey, you need to ensure your line item is correctly set up, including conversion pixels and segment targeting.">Set
  Up Cross-Device Attribution</a>






